ETQ qu'instructeur je veux pouvoir télécharger une archive de ma procédure même si elle fait plus de 5Go (et conserver la capacité a chiffré le truc) (#6989)
betagouv/demarches-simplifiees.fr: doc/object-storange-and-data-encryption.md

> # Protection against a data breach

Reviewer: Coquille dans le nom du fichier (`object-storange-and-data-encryption.md`)

## Object Storage

> We are using an [OVH Object Storage](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en/public-cloud/object-storage/) backend. In order to keep our users safe in case of a data breach, objects are (de)crypted as follow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, demarches-simplifiees.fr uses an [OVH Object Storage](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en/public-cloud/object-storage/) backend. The hard-drives are encrypted at rest, but to protect user files even better, demarches-simplifiees.fr can also use an external encryption proxy, that will encrypt and decrypt files on the fly:
```

This process to chunks the file in segment, then re-arrange it via a manifest. Unfortunately encryption can't work with this usecase.

So we are using a custom script that wraps two call to our proxy in order to buffer all the chunks, encrypt/decrypt the whole. Here is an example

```
#!/usr/bin/env bash
# wrapper script to encrypt and upload file received from archive

set -o errexit
set -o pipefail
set -o nounset

# params
# 1: filename to upload
# 2: object storage key
if ! [ "$#" -eq 2 ]; then
    echo "usage: $0 <filename> <key>"
    exit 1
fi
filename=$1
key=$2

# encrypt
curl -s -XPUT http://ds_proxy_url:ds_proxy_port/local/encrypt/${filename} --data-binary @${filename}

# get back encrypted file
encrypted_filename=${filename}
curl -s http://ds_proxy_url:ds_proxy_port/local/encrypt/${filename} -o ${encrypted_filename}

# OVH openstack params
os_tenant_name=TENANT_NAME
os_username=USERNAME
os_password=PASSWORD
os_region_name=REGION

# auth = https://auth.cloud.ovh.net/v3/

> # use haproxy proxy and not direct internet URL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

os_auth_url="https://object.storage.auth.url/version/"
os_storage_url="https://object.storage.region/v1/AUTH_KEY" \
container_name=bucket_name

expiring_delay="$((60 * 60 * 24))" # 24h

# see: https://docs.openstack.org/ocata/cli-reference/swift.html
/path/to/swift_client \
  --auth-version 3 \
  --os-auth-url "$os_auth_url" \
  --os-storage-url "$os_storage_url" \
  --os-region-name "$os_region_name" \
  --os-tenant-name "$os_tenant_name" \
  --os-username "$os_username" \
  --os-password "$os_password" \
  upload \
  --header "X-Delete-After: ${expiring_delay}" \
  --segment-size "$((3 * 1024 * 1024 * 1024))" \
  --header "Content-Disposition: filename=${encrypted_filename}" \
  --object-name "${key}" \
  "${container_name}" "${encrypted_filename}"

swift_exit_code=$?

# cleanup
rm ${encrypted_filename}

# return swift return code
exit ${swift_exit_code}

> ```

Reviewer: J'ai l'impression qu'on ne va jamais avoir besoin de ce script que si on utilise ds_proxy. Est-ce que ça se tiendrait de le versionner dans un dossier du repo `ds_proxy` - genre `ds_proxy/bin/swift_chunk.sh` ? Ou c'est trop spécifique ?

Author: alors c'est specifique au DS proxy, mais j'ai cru comprendre que s3 se retrouve avec la même contrainte (et d'autres j'imagine?). D'ou l'idée documenter rapido ds le script. a la limite faudrait pouvoir fournir les 'adapters' en fonction des services?
